# InnoDB
- for InnoDB, each node is a block in disk, the size of each node is 16kb
- Only leaf nodes contain the real data, non-leaf nodes only contain the index and ref to children nodes
- Leaf nodes are connected via bidrectional pointers, and are sorted.
- Mysql will create a seperate file Secondary index, whereas primary index share the same file with real data
- Primary index, mysql will store entire row data at the the leaf node, whereas for scondary index, only primary key will be stored
- Why do we propose using incrementing primary key? Avoid B+ tree breaking nodes too often.

# Transaction ACID
- Atomicity, during the process of a transaction, either all the operations are finised or none of thme have been done.
- Consistency, The transctions only make changes to the table in a pre-defiined, predictable way. The transaction should make no changes that violate the rules or constraints placed on the data.
- Isolation, transactions should be isolated and should not be affected by other transactions.
- Durable, the changes made by the transaction should be permanant, even there is a fail-over in the system.

# Isolation level
## Issues
- Lost Update, One transaction has overrtten the changes done by another transaction
- Dirty Reads, One transaction have read some data changed but not commited by another transaction. E.g. first fetch the name is 'Bob', and another transaction changes the name to 'Alice', then second fetch the name becomes 'Alice' and deduct 50# from 'Alice's account, but after the transaction is commited, another transaction has rolledback the transaction.
- Non-repeatable Reads, Inside a transaction, if it performs two reads at different time, response has changed, e.g. A transaction has fetched one record with name equal to 'Bob', later on, another transaction has commited a transaction which has changed the record to 'Alice', and A transaction tries to fetch the same record, ending the same record value has changed from 'Bob' to 'Alice', even the 'Read Commited' level cannot resolve this issue.
- Phantom Reads, A transaction has fetched some data commited by B transaction
- Read uncommited
- Read commited
- Repeatable read
- Serialiable
